# Bloggit
A Personal Project to design a layout for a user interface of a social media platform.

## Idea
Bloggit is a social media platform where users can upload their daily blog posts. Users can also follow a series of other users, which will then present the user with their blog posts on a timeline. The need for this type of application comes from the lack of blogging sites that act like social platforms. Most bloggers will have a dedicated website, which requires users to navigate different user interfaces. This can add a layer of complexity that may turn users away from the blogging community entirely.

## Similar Sites
Facebook is designed to share most formats of social media and has a plethora of functionality. You can play games, vist marketplaces, message friends, and view posts (which includes user create stories, profile picture updates etc). Facebook folllows a bubble like design, utilizing cards that have a vertical flow. Each card is roughly the size of the page, ensuring there is enough space to see the top of the following card and bottom of the previous card to suggest to the user that they can scroll. Facebook utilizes a blue and white pattern. The limited colors and fonts create an environment that is easy for the user to remember. This is helpful for the user as they navigate through different pages of facebook, as the consistency in the design allows the user to know where they are at all times. The header for the page contains the facebook logo, and navigational buttons. This is the part of the page the users will notice first (humans are trained to read top to bottom, left to right). As such, Facebook follows this intuition, leading the user from the more important components of the site first.
Redit is a lot like facebook in the form of social media. You can post a plethora of different media types. However, Reddit removes some functionality that facebook offers, and cuts down to a simplier design. Cards are utilized to seperate different items like Facebook. We see the same design pattern shared with instagram as well. 

## The Box Model
The Box Model is a simple design and layout model, where all object are considered a box (either with their bounding box, or some alternate justification). When designing with HTML elements, each element can be considered as it's own box. However, we alter the HTML element's box visually with CSS. The CSS box model wraps around every HTML element, consisting of (outer layer inward) a Margin, Border, Padding, and then finally, the HTML element itself, the content. Each box can generally be one of two types, Block or Inline. A Block box will ensure it is not in the same row as some other object (the default behaviour of HTML elements) and will also attempt to fill 100% of it's allocated space (unless some width or height has been defined). Inline boxes will behave almost opposite to the Block boxes. Firstly, they do not break onto a new row, and also, they do not attempt to fill the space or respect width and height properties.

In this project, we will be utilizing both types of boxes defined in the Box Model. This will allow the website to develop into a more freely placed design (with a sidebar) whilst also retaining regidity in it's structure. We can see similar designs with Reddit.
